# Overview

I remember when I first got into networking as an intern at AT&T back in the summer of 2014, the hot buzz words everyone kept mentioning were "network automation" and "software defined networking". But nobody really knew exactly what these words meant. They were mainly used as umbrella terms to cover any sort of network programmability. For instance, the summer of my first internship, I spent most of my time working on an SDN (Software Defined Networking) project that used OpenFlow (RIP) to accomplish some basic service chaining functionality. This is a totally different version of what most people think of today when referring to network automation today.

Today, network automation is still a pretty losely defined term but I think there's a bit more of an understanding as to what people are referring to when they mention it. It seems to me, when people mention network automation they are referring to managing their network with software instead of via the CLI of each device. I know. That still doesn't really clear things up. The reason I say that is because there are a number of different tools, platforms, and methodologies teams can use to implement some sort of programmable network management using tools ranging from vendor specific products to open source industry favorites. 

But I do think I can definitively say this: the whole point of network automation is to give network operators the ability to manage their networks using an IaC (Infrastructure as Code) approach. This means configurations are generated, tracked, tested, and validated in a CI/CD pipeline type of fashion. If you don't know what any of that means, don't worry. That's what this post is for. But trust me when I say that this is the type of approach the big cloud titans use to manage their networks. It allows them to make changes rapidly, reliably, and frequently. In the next few sections, we'll go into detail describing the fundamental building blocks of this IaC mindset and how you can take these pieces to build a full fledge CI/CD pipeline that let's you operate your network like the Microsofts and Googles of the world.
 